### tidy_data.txt Code Book

## Variable Names

**subject:** This is the identifying number for which study participant collected the particular
sample

=========

**activity:** This variable represents the kind of movement the subject was performing when the
observation was made

===========

**variable:** The variables compiled were a selection of those recorded by the original study. According to the original data set's features_info.txt:

"The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

"Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

"Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

"These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions."


For consistency and to comply with appropriate style conventions in variable naming, variable
names have been changed slightly from the original study. The following variable names are
found in the variable column of the generated data set:

* tbodyacc.mean.x
* tbodyacc.mean.y
* tbodyacc.mean.z
* tbodyacc.std.x
* tbodyacc.std.y
* tbodyacc.std.z
* tgravityacc.mean.x
* tgravityacc.mean.y
* tgravityacc.mean.z
* tgravityacc.std.x
* tgravityacc.std.y
* tgravityacc.std.z
* tbodyaccjerk.mean.x
* tbodyaccjerk.mean.y
* tbodyaccjerk.mean.z
* tbodyaccjerk.std.x
* tbodyaccjerk.std.y
* tbodyaccjerk.std.z
* tbodygyro.mean.x
* tbodygyro.mean.y
* tbodygyro.mean.z
* tbodygyro.std.x
* tbodygyro.std.y
* tbodygyro.std.z
* tbodygyrojerk.mean.x
* tbodygyrojerk.mean.y
* tbodygyrojerk.mean.z
* tbodygyrojerk.std.x
* tbodygyrojerk.std.y
* tbodygyrojerk.std.z
* tbodyaccmag.mean
* tbodyaccmag.std
* tgravityaccmag.mean
* tgravityaccmag.std
* tbodyaccjerkmag.mean
* tbodyaccjerkmag.std
* tbodygyromag.mean
* tbodygyromag.std"
* tbodygyrojerkmag.mean
* tbodygyrojerkmag.std
* fbodyacc.mean.x
* fbodyacc.mean.y
* fbodyacc.mean.z
* fbodyacc.std.x
* fbodyacc.std.y
* fbodyacc.std.z
* fbodyacc.meanfreq.x
* fbodyacc.meanfreq.y
* fbodyacc.meanfreq.z
* fbodyaccjerk.mean.x
* fbodyaccjerk.mean.y
* fbodyaccjerk.mean.z
* fbodyaccjerk.std.x
* fbodyaccjerk.std.y
* fbodyaccjerk.std.z
* fbodyaccjerk.meanfreq.x
* fbodyaccjerk.meanfreq.y
* fbodyaccjerk.meanfreq.z
* fbodygyro.mean.x
* fbodygyro.mean.y
* fbodygyro.mean.z
* fbodygyro.std.x
* fbodygyro.std.y
* fbodygyro.std.z
* fbodygyro.meanfreq.x
* fbodygyro.meanfreq.y
* fbodygyro.meanfreq.z
* fbodyaccmag.mean
* fbodyaccmag.std
* fbodyaccmag.meanfreq
* fbodybodyaccjerkmag.mean
* fbodybodyaccjerkmag.std
* fbodybodyaccjerkmag.meanfreq
* fbodybodygyromag.mean
* fbodybodygyromag.std
* fbodybodygyromag.meanfreq
* fbodybodygyrojerkmag.mean
* fbodybodygyrojerkmag.std
* fbodybodygyrojerkmag.meanfreq
* angle.tbodyaccmean.gravity
* angle.tbodyaccjerkmean.gravitymean
* angle.tbodygyromean.gravitymean
* angle.tbodygyrojerkmean.gravitymean
* angle.x.gravitymean
* angle.y.gravitymean
* angle.z.gravitymean

==============

**mean:** This column depicts the mean of multiple observations of the sample data for a given variable. 

## Transformations

The script applies several transformations to the dataset generated by the original researchers.
First, it combines subject data, activity data, test results, and variable names, originally
contained in 4 separate files, into one dataset. Then, the script filters out all observation data variables that are not means or standard deviations of study observations. The script
then melts the data down to be single observations of subject, activity, variable name, and value. Finally, it averages the multiple values for a given subject, activity, and variable name. That data is then recorded into the tidy_data.txt file.